DIGITAL MARATHON 2.1.29 - QUICK START
====================================

START HERE
----------
Use the single complete combined ZIP (local package or GitHub Release asset):
  digital-marathon-cross-platform-v2.1.29-click-to-launch.zip
Source code (zip/tar.gz) archives lack the runtimes/JAR for direct launch.
The public release becomes available after owner publication.

1. Extract the ZIP completely.
2. Open the extracted folder named: digital-marathon
3. Double-click the launcher for your computer:

   Apple Silicon Mac -> Digital Marathon.app
   Windows x64       -> Start Digital Marathon - Windows.bat
   Linux             -> Start Screen Recorder - Linux.sh

Mac and Windows launchers are together in ONE folder. They include Java and
launch directly: no Java installation, terminal, app build or internet needed.

Supported: Apple Silicon Macs with macOS 11 or later; Windows 10/11 x64 PCs.
This package does not include an Intel Mac app or a native Windows ARM runtime.

Windows: keep the entire extracted digital-marathon folder together. The .bat
launcher needs the app-files folder beside it. Do not run from inside the ZIP.

Mac: open the app here or copy Digital Marathon.app to Applications. The Mac app
is self-contained and can be moved on its own.


MACOS
-----
1. Double-click Digital Marathon.app.
2. If macOS blocks it, try right-click > Open, or after the blocked attempt use:
      System Settings > Privacy & Security > Open Anyway
3. Enable Digital Marathon in:
      System Settings > Privacy & Security > Input Monitoring
   Enable Accessibility as well if requested.
4. The app retries automatically after permission is enabled. Quit and reopen
   if macOS asks.

Local development and testing do not require an Apple Developer account or
notarization. This package uses a local ad-hoc signature; Apple Command Line
Tools are not needed to run it. Browser-downloaded unnotarized copies can still
be blocked by macOS. Local testing does not guarantee prompt-free launch on
every Mac or downloaded copy. Developer ID signing and notarization may be
considered later for public distribution.

Permissions help opens a compact window in your current theme. Use Open Input
Monitoring or Open Accessibility for the matching System Settings pane.
Detailed recovery steps remain in Help > Troubleshooting.

If counting still fails after permissions appear enabled, run:

   REPAIR_MAC_PERMISSIONS.command

Then re-enable Digital Marathon in Input Monitoring/Accessibility and reopen it.
If you moved the app to Applications, reopen it from Applications after repair.


WINDOWS 10/11 X64
-----------------
1. Double-click Start Digital Marathon - Windows.bat.
2. If Microsoft Defender SmartScreen appears, use More info > Run anyway when
   available for a package you trust.
3. Use the same .bat file for future launches. Keep it beside app-files.

Java is already included. The Windows launcher does not build or download the
application.


LINUX
-----
Linux retains the original build-on-first-launch launcher. The first launch can
take a few minutes and may download build tools. Later launches reuse the app.

1. Open a terminal in the digital-marathon folder.
2. If required, make the launcher executable:
      chmod +x "Start Screen Recorder - Linux.sh"
3. Run:
      ./"Start Screen Recorder - Linux.sh"

For Wayland input-access instructions, see:

   app-files/docs/LINUX-WAYLAND.md


USING THE APP
-------------
Digital Marathon remembers the view used when you close it. Close in Mini View
and the next launch returns to Mini View at its last position. Close in Full
View and the next launch restores Full View at its last position and size.

Full View keeps every range, unit, Display PPI, custom date/time and Permissions
control. Mouse distance is blue, Key presses green, Mouse clicks amber and
Active time violet. The chart legend reads: Bars = activity; Line = trend.
Hover or click anywhere along the trend line for the closest recorded interval's
date/time, mouse distance, keys, clicks, active time and relative activity.
Values are real interval totals, with no invented intermediate values. Its
opaque detail card appears near that point and stays visible during live updates.
Only the line point highlights; bars stay unchanged with no shaded interval band.
The 0-100% scale is relative activity.

Mini View keeps the existing body: Mouse and Clicks share the blue card, Keys
stays in the green card, and the selected range and green Active timer remain
below. Only the top toolbar is refreshed with the capture shield,
transparency bar, appearance, pin and Full View.

Both views use the existing small 0-75% transparency bar with a rounded tab
handle. Its slightly deeper soft tint is clearer in both themes, with no halo.
The bars, tab and surrounding controls keep their sizes: 0% is opaque and
75% is most transparent.
Drag the tab or click the bar to set a value. Smooth dragging changes transparency
without moving the window; keyboard arrow-key adjustment remains available.
Move the window from clear header space or Mini View's bottom range strip.

The Pearl & Aqua brand icon uses modestly darker color and improved rendering
for clearer small icons on your display. It is used for the Mac app icon and the running app's
Dock/taskbar icon, plus Full View, certificates, Help and the PDF guide.
The macOS Dock and Finder keep the approved larger icon.
Icons inside the app, certificates, Help and PDF guide stay the same.
Full View and Help keep the same header icon sizes. Small icons are filtered
at the display's actual pixel resolution for clearer detail on Retina and other
displays.
Short tooltips appear away from window content and dismiss when the pointer
leaves a control.

Actions:
- Pause Tracking excludes activity; Resume Tracking resumes collection.
  This button stays neutral, even on hover/press; only its text and icon change.
- Reset Session zeros the live session without deleting saved history.
- Export CSV saves the selected period.
- Clear History permanently deletes saved history after confirmation.

Active time is elapsed collection time while tracking runs. It does not measure
attention or productivity. At local midnight the live day starts again at zero
while the completed day remains in history.

Certificate:
Choose a range and open My Digital Marathon Certificate. Enter Name on
Certificate and choose Download Certificate. The JPEG saves to Downloads with
a timestamped filename. Higher-quality JPEG export uses 97% quality and
full-color 4:4:4 sampling to retain finer detail and colored edges.
A compact Certificate saved notice shows the filename
and folder. Use Open Certificate, Show in Folder or Copy file location for the
complete path; Done closes the notice. File-opening actions depend on desktop
support. The report and JPEG
follow the selected Classic Award design. The JPEG uses warm paper, a fine
gold double border, centered recipient name and the original gold laptop award
badge at the top right. Totals, activity meter, achievements, finish-line verdict and
award attribution remain available.

Screen Capture Privacy:
- In Full View, use "Hide from screenshots & sharing" beside the bottom buttons.
- The toggle is off by default. When on, the app requests the capture exclusion
  supported by your operating system or desktop.
- Its outer surface and border stay neutral. Only the switch track and knob
  change between on and off; the whole control does not turn blue.
- The shield in the Full View and Mini View top toolbars shows whether protection
  is applied. A neutral shield means it is off or unavailable.
- macOS uses AppKit window-sharing protection. Windows uses
  WDA_EXCLUDEFROMCAPTURE (Windows 10 version 2004+ provides intended exclusion).
- Linux supports automatic exclusion on KDE Plasma 6.7+ through KWin. Other
  Linux desktops do not currently expose an equivalent standard control.


SLEEP / LID-CLOSE RESUME
------------------------
Digital Marathon automatically recovers its input monitor after sleep on macOS,
Windows and Linux. It clears stale held-key/pointer state on resume. Windows/X11
re-register the hook when needed; Linux Wayland reopens passive evdev readers
if device nodes were recreated. Linux input devices are not grabbed, and native
input callbacks hand tracker work to a dedicated worker.


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------
Mac: check any error shown by the app. For input-counting problems, check Input
Monitoring/Accessibility or use REPAIR_MAC_PERMISSIONS.command. The direct app
launcher does not produce a separate startup log.

Windows launch logs:

   %LOCALAPPDATA%\DigitalMarathon\logs

If Windows reports missing files, extract the complete ZIP again and keep the
folder together.

Linux startup/build log:

   app-files/digital-marathon-startup.log

Linux built application:

   app-files/build/linux/Digital Marathon


PRIVACY AND SAVED HISTORY
-------------------------
Digital Marathon stores numerical activity totals. It does NOT store typed text,
individual key identities, clipboard contents, screenshots, application names,
or window titles.

Saved activity data stays on your computer:

   macOS/Linux -> ~/.digital_marathon/activity-buckets.dat
   Windows     -> %APPDATA%\DigitalMarathon\activity-buckets.dat

Moving the launch folder or Mac app does not move or erase saved history.

For the version 2.1.29 product features, launch and usage guide, open:

   app-files/docs/Digital-Marathon-Product-Guide.pdf

This guide, README.md and the PDF use the same current launch instructions.
CHANGELOG.md lists the release changes. Source, platform help and license
notices are included in app-files and the runtimes.


UPDATES AND BASIC USAGE
-----------------------
Open Help > About and choose Check for updates for a manual check.
Automatic checks run at startup and every 15 minutes while the app is open.
Choose Download Update, Remind Me Later (24 hours), or Skip This Version.
A manual check can still show a skipped release. There are no notifications
while the app is closed. Downloads require a matching release SHA-256 checksum.

The update downloads and verifies in the background while tracking continues.
You may extract the verified ZIP into a new folder while using the current
session. When ready, quit the current app and open the new launcher. Restarting is
required only to activate the new build; the app does not replace loaded Java
or native input components in place. Existing activity history stays local.

Basic usage analytics starts automatically at launch, including installations
with an older saved opt-out. There is no first-run choice or analytics toggle
in Help. Automatic update checks are also restored if an old preference had
disabled them; no update-check switch is shown. This release uses the existing PulseStudio
PostHog project; Digital Marathon's insights and dashboard save their own
app_id = digital-marathon filter. All its events start with digital_marathon_;
the existing PulseStudio dashboard stays unchanged. There is no new project,
billing plan or card setup.

Usage events contain app/runtime details, random installation/session IDs,
launch/session timing and limited state, feature, update and error categories.
App-session timing is separate from tracked Active time. Input counts, activity
totals, typed text, certificate names, paths, ranges, history and exports are
never transmitted. Source IP exists in transit; no location is derived by the
app, and requests disable GeoIP enrichment. There is no person-profile creation,
autocapture or session recording. See ANALYTICS.md for details.

Owner dashboard:
  https://us.posthog.com/project/580438/dashboard/2181978

OWNER PUBLISHING
----------------
Use Publish Digital Marathon.command on Mac and
Publish Digital Marathon - Windows.bat on Windows. A .command file does not
run on Windows; Publish PulseStudio.command belongs to the PulseStudio app.
These owner tools require Git and GitHub CLI. Keep the original combined ZIP
beside the extracted folder or in Downloads, or select it with --zip. They
derive sanitized source from that ZIP and compute a temporary checksum when no
separate one is supplied. No separate source/checksum download is required.
Explicitly supplied source or checksum files must pass strict verification.
They support --dry-run and verify a draft before marking it Latest. See
PUBLISHING.md. Normal app use needs neither publishing tool.

Publishing a newer Release as Latest from either Digital Marathon publisher
makes prompts available in running Digital Marathon 2.1.27 or later with
automatic checks enabled. Pushing a source commit alone does not trigger them.
